# My Experience at ALX (And an excuse to talk about other things as well)

On the tipping end of 2022, I finally got the courage to apply for ALX Africa Software Engineering
course. On 5th Dec, 2022, I got the acceptable letter and was scheduled to start on 23rd January 2023.
First, how did I get here, let's do a little background first.

## Background
The year is 2009, I am 6 years old. This was first encounter with Electricity. It was the most fascinating thing I had ever seen. It was probably because I had never seen it before, or that no one could explain it to me to.my satisfaction. 5 years later, and 7 years after Steve Jobs introduced the smartphone to the world, I finally owned my first smartphone, a Huawei Ideos. I immediately created my email address, and got my first phone number. I just browsed the internet all day, watched youtube videos, even rubbed some shoulders with early Bitcoin scams. 4 years later (2018), I started asking myself how the applications and websites I used were created. I knew that apps were used to do and create things, so they could potentially be used to create other apps, then who created the first app? So I was in a chicken and egg situation. So over the holiday, I dug myself a rabbit hole as I did research (google search). That's when I discovered programming. My little research showed that I should start with Python. I used an app called Sololearn. A few months later I had learnt Python, HTML, CSS, and some little Javascript. I also tried to learn Java but couldn't handle them complexity.

A year later (2019), I had a laptop and I could fully explore this world, in the little time I had in between holiday and school. 2020 hits, covid hits and we close school indefinitely. I was in my final year of high school. In that time, I learnt a lot, I focused on web development, did some php, Django, jQuery, Bootstrap and Python automation. I remember writing a script to automatically log me into a zoom lessons we had during Covid. I ended being home for 7 months before resuming school.

November 2021, I was done with high school and had just joined University, studying what I found most fascinating, Electrical Engineering. Then, I decided to get into the modern side of Javascript. First, I started with Typescript, then jumped into Angular and later ReactJS and subsequently NextJs.

## Culture
Throughout my time then, from what I had experienced, the world of tech was easily accessible and was usually free. If I want to learn about Docker, then surely there is the Docker documentation. Similarly, python comes with it's own official documentation. I don't have to pay to be taught how to use Python, you have all the material at your disposal. There is also the issue of being issued with a certificate. I am not a big fan of such certifications especially when they seem like they are just taking some money. I would argue that someone that has used Amazon Web Services(AWS) over the past 6 years, and does not have a certification is more qualified than someone who took 3 month boothcamp and did the `expensive` certification exams and passed. So in my opinion, getting a certification was not at all necessary.

## Business statistic
Bootcamps have been around all along. It's only that we have changed the name. It is a quickest way to learn something. In my field of Electrical Engineering, we would call these bootcamps technical institutes. It is where all electrical technicians, and plumbers are trained. And the truth is, we would trust a plumber to fix a leaking pipe over a civil engineer. A civil engineer might know why it is leaking, redesign it and put measures to prevent it from leaking, but a plumber is the best to do the manual work. I might argue the plumber has done 10 times more, worked with different pipes, knows their weaknesses. In tech, this is the gap bootcamps fill. However, bootcamps have turned into VC funded lucrative businesses. It's about bussiness. It's about recruiting as much students as possible.

## warming up
Every once in while, limiting to within Kenya in this theory, there is an opportunity so good you have to be part of, lest be left behind. A while back, while I still discovering the intricacies of programming, there was a program by Andela. The engineers who got to be part of this project are some of the best developers I look up to right now. I believed ALX was the Andela of my time and I knew I had to join, it was also a scholarship, which was not an issue for me since as I said earlier, I won't pay to be taught something that is available.